Document MCP Server Assist context-snapshot resource support (#44501)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/mcp_server.markdown

ha_quality_scale: silver
---

> The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) is an open protocol that standardizes how applications provide context to <abbr title="Large Language Models">LLMs</abbr>. The **Model Context Protocol Server** (MCP) integration enables using Home Assistant to provide context for <abbr title="Model Context Protocol">MCP</abbr> LLM Client Applications. For example, you can control your lights from Claude Desktop, or let an MCP client read a snapshot of your current Assist context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io) is an open protocol that standardizes how applications provide context to <abbr title="Large Language Models">LLMs</abbr>. The **Model Context Protocol Server** (MCP) integration enables using Home Assistant to provide context for <abbr title="Model Context Protocol">MCP</abbr> LLM Client Applications. For example, you can control your lights from Claude Desktop, or expose your Google Tasks to-do list as a tool.
```
I liked the old version of the introduction better, as a high-level overview. To me, it was easier to understand what it actually does.

> Controlling Home Assistant is done by providing <abbr title="Model Context Protocol">MCP</abbr> clients access to the Assist API of Home Assistant. You can control what devices and entities it can access from the {% my voice_assistants title="exposed entities page" %}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controlling Home Assistant is done by providing <abbr title="Model Context Protocol">MCP</abbr> clients with access to Home Assistant's Assist API. You can control what devices and entities it can access from the {% my voice_assistants title="exposed entities page" %}, and your <abbr title="Model Context Protocol">MCP</abbr> client can also read a real-time snapshot of that context. This gives your AI assistant a clear picture of your home's current state.
```
Moving the snapshot info from the intro into the body.
